README.md, before:

Sheet Swiper converts spreadsheets containing linguistic data to Standard Format (for use with Linguist's Toolbox, Phonology Assistant, Lexique Pro, FLex, WeSay, etc.). The rules for how to do the conversion come from the first rows of the spreadsheet itself, so subsequent, repeated conversions are easy for non-computer savvy users to do.

## Downloads
https://github.com/sillsdev/sheetswiper/releases

## Requirements

Any Microsoft Windows with Microsoft .Net Framework v4.5 or greater.

## Screenshots

Given this spreadsheet:

![image](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/8448/25486409/47d68692-2b1e-11e7-9b57-1094f0ed3ad4.png)

We drag that file in and convert:

![image](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/8448/25486359/2403ef7a-2b1e-11e7-9ca0-6edb77903279.png)

Then "review" tab shows what we'll get:

![image](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/8448/25486338/11e5b08a-2b1e-11e7-91cb-a84e49613852.png)

## How to use

In your spreadsheet, insert a row at the beginnning. For each column, fill this first row with the sfm markers you want to use for the data in that column. Omit markers from columns you don't want to include in the sfm. The first marker (usually in column A) will be used as the record marker.

Save the file (make sure it is saved as ".xls"), and close it.

Now run Sheet Swiper and use one of its options to locate the file, convert it, and save it. I like to just drag files onto the Sheet Swiper window.

Sheet Swiper can only read .xls spreadsheet format. We have tested Sheet Swiper using Excel XP, 2007, and Open Office, and Libre Office.

## Credits

The real work, the reading of the xls, is done via code from [Liu JunFeng's Excel Reader project](https://code.google.com/archive/p/excellibrary/). On Github, this can be found at [fmendes/ExcelDataImport](https://github.com/fmendes/ExcelDataImport/tree/master/ExcelLibrary/Office/Excel).

Commit message:

Add support for XLSX files / add unit testing (#4)
* Add support for xlsx with new dependency

* Unit test for converter

Also, importantly, updated the sample output file, which is now also used in the test. The resultant output text from the converted file has two differences (matching what the software has already been doing for who knows how long):

- If the column header is present, cell value is added even if empty
- Some characters are now properly translated, where before they rendered as '?'

* Updated the file dialog

* Added a test for xlsx

* Added json config's

* update license and readme for v2.0

* add developer instructions to readme

---------

Co-authored-by: Chris Hirt <chris@hirtfamily.net>

README.md, after:

Sheet Swiper converts spreadsheets containing linguistic data to Standard Format (for use with Linguist's Toolbox, Phonology Assistant, Lexique Pro, FLex, WeSay, etc.). The rules for how to do the conversion come from the first rows of the spreadsheet itself, so subsequent, repeated conversions are easy for non-computer savvy users to do.

## How to use

In your spreadsheet, insert a row at the beginnning. For each column, fill this first row with the sfm markers you want to use for the data in that column. Omit markers from columns you don't want to include in the sfm. The first marker (usually in column A) will be used as the record marker.

Save the XLSX file and close it.

Now run Sheet Swiper and use one of its options to locate the file, convert it, and save it. I like to just drag files onto the Sheet Swiper window.

Sheetswiper has been tested with Microsoft Excel and Libre Office.

## Downloads
https://github.com/sillsdev/sheetswiper/releases

## Changelog

v2.0 - Requires Windows 10 or greater (.NET 8). Can read both xlsx and xls files.
v1.x - Works on any Windows with .Net 3.5.  Can only read xls files.

## Screenshots

Given this spreadsheet:

![image](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/8448/25486409/47d68692-2b1e-11e7-9b57-1094f0ed3ad4.png)

We drag that file in and convert:

![image](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/8448/25486359/2403ef7a-2b1e-11e7-9ca0-6edb77903279.png)

Then "review" tab shows what we'll get:

![image](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/8448/25486338/11e5b08a-2b1e-11e7-91cb-a84e49613852.png)

## Developers

This project is built using the .Net 8 SDK

```
dotnet build src\SheetSwiper.sln
```

```
dotnet run --project src\SheetSwiper.csproj
```

### Run tests
```
dotnet test src\SheetSwiper.sln
```
